2025.3.0 (#37822)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2025-03-05-release-20253.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "2025.3: View those headers!"

> description: "Beautiful dashboard view headers, tons of tile card improvements and new features, better map clustering, assist now streams responses, and integrating with SmartThings is now better than ever!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Beautiful dashboard view headers, tons of tile card improvements and new features, better map clustering, Assist now streams responses, and integrating with SmartThings is now better than ever!"
```

<img class="no-shadow" src="/images/blog/2025-03/dashboard-view-header.png" alt="Screenshot showing the new header feature in the dashboard view." />

The badges can also be positioned below the text (default) or above the text. A
great visual menu makes it easy to choose how you want to organize your header.

## Tile cards

This release has made many improvements and fine touches to the tile card. It
is one of the most versatile cards in Home Assistant,
and we have made it even better!

### Making tile card interactions clearer

There is no doubt the tile card can do a lot, but ever since its creation,
it has had a little flaw that you might have run into yourself…

How would you know if tapping the icon on the tile card would trigger
an action or whether it would just display more information? We have addressed
this with some subtle visual language in this release!

<img class="no-shadow" src="/images/blog/2025-03/tile-card-clear-interactions.png" alt="Screenshot showing tile cards with and without direct actions on their icons. The ones that do have a direct action have a circular background, others don't." />

> When tapping the icon on the tile card results in directly performing an action,
> like for example, turning on a light, the icon will have a circular background
> around it. In all other cases, the little circle will not be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When tapping the icon on the tile card directly performs an action,
like for example, turning on a light, the icon will have a circular background
around it. In all other cases, the little circle will not be displayed.
```

the tile card has been improved. It is now clearer and easier to use.

The new control gives you a better overview of what the option will do for
the tile card.

<img class="no-shadow" src="/images/blog/2025-03/card-editor-improvements.png" alt="Screenshot showing the brand new visual card editor that make it more visually clear what options do." />

## Assist chat now has streaming responses

If you have hooked up an LLM, like ChatGPT, to your Assist as
a conversation agent, it will now livestream the responses to you when
you are text chatting with it!

When experimenting with larger models, or on slower hardware, LLM’s can feel
sluggish. They only respond once the entire reply is generated, which can take
frustratingly long for lengthy responses (you’ll be waiting a while if you ask
it to tell you an epic fairy tale).

We've added support for LLMs to stream their response to the text chat, allowing you
to start reading while the response is being generated. A bonus side effect is
that commands are now also faster: they will be executed as soon as they come
in, without waiting for the rest of the message to be complete.

> <lite-youtube videoid="k6VvzDSI8RU" videoStartAt="3239" videotitle="Home Assistant 2025.3 Release Party"></lite-youtube>

Reviewer 2: Is this YouTube tag in the right place?

Author: Yeah the title is wrong 👍 Nice catch

  helper]. Thanks!

[@balloob]: https://github.com/balloob
[@bramkragten]: https://github.com/bramkragten
[@edenhaus]: https://github.com/edenhaus
[@jpbede]: https://github.com/jpbede
[@jschlyter]: https://github.com/jschlyter
[@PeteRager]: https:/github.com/PeteRager
[@piitaya]: https://github.com/piitaya
[@rikroe]: https://github.com/rikroe
[browse media as an action with a response]: /integrations/media_player#action-media_playerbrowse_media
[retrieve the configuration of a schedule helper]: /integrations/schedule#action-scheduleget_schedule

## Iterating on the legends of graphs

Last release, we made [quite a big change to the charts](/blog/2025/02/05/release-20252/#preparing-our-graphs-for-the-future)
by replacing the software we use to make these graphs in Home Assistant. Things
changed behind the scenes, but our aim to start was to make it look
and feel similar.

However, we received a lot of feedback from the community that the legends shown
on the new graphs were suboptimal. Our UX and frontend teams have been working
hard to improve this situation and make the new graph legends more similar
to the old ones.

<center>

> <img class="no-shadow" alt="A screen recording showing expanding and collapsing the " src="/images/blog/2025-03/graph-legend.gif"/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<img class="no-shadow" alt="A screen recording showing expanding and collapsing the legend" src="/images/blog/2025-03/graph-legend.gif"/>
```

[@marcinbauer85]: https://github.com/marcinbauer85

## Need help? Join the community!

Home Assistant has a great community of users who are all more than willing
to help each other out. So, join us!

Our very active [Discord chat server](/join-chat) is an excellent place to be
at, and don't forget to join our amazing [forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/).

Found a bug or issue? Please report it in our [issue tracker](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues),
to get it fixed! Or, check [our help page](/help) for guidance for more
places you can go.

Are you more into email? [Sign-up for our Building the Open Home Newsletter](/newsletter)
to get the latest news about features, things happening in our community and
other news about building an Open Home; straight into your inbox.

## Backward-incompatible changes

We do our best to avoid making changes to existing functionality that might
unexpectedly impact your Home Assistant installation. Unfortunately, sometimes,
it is inevitable.

We always make sure to document these changes to make the transition as easy as
possible for you. This release has the following backward-incompatible changes:

{% details "GPSD" %}

> All state attributes of the main sensor have been replaced with a dedicated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All state attributes of the main sensor were replaced with a dedicated
```

> sensor Home Assistant 2024.9. The deprecated attributes have now been removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sensor Home Assistant in 2024.9. The deprecated attributes have now been removed.
```

([@jrieger] - [#137600]) ([documentation](/integrations/gpsd))

[@jrieger]: https://github.com/jrieger
[#137600]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/137600

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Home Connect" %}

Some programs and program switches (which are being deprecated) and program
select entities may not be exposed anymore by the integration as they are
missing an `aiohomeconnect` program key enumeration ([file](https://github.com/MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect/blob/ccfbf802884aa781eef481da92e6bccd2e6de733/src/aiohomeconnect/model/program.py#L213C1-L507C6)).

> You can get the diagnostics from configuration entry or the device and open an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can get the diagnostics from the configuration entry or the device and open an
```

issue or submit a PR with the generated diagnostics file on the
[`aiohomeconnect` repository](https://github.com/MartinHjelmare/aiohomeconnect)
to suggest the missing program(s).

([@Diegorro98] - [#136116]) ([documentation](/integrations/home_connect))

[@Diegorro98]: https://github.com/Diegorro98
[#136116]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/136116

---

> Using program and option keys that aren't in the API documentation will no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using program and option keys that aren't in the API documentation in Home Connect actions will no
```

> longer work. To be able to use them, open an issue or submit a pull request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
longer work. To be able to use undocumented program or option keys, open an issue or submit a pull request
```
